>> Kyle: Talking about those named
function expressions for a moment.
Let's dig into that question.
If we look at this example,
we look at two different ways that
a function expression can be created.
One is what we would call
anonymous function expression.
You notice the function keyword on
like one followed immediately by
the parentheses.
There's no name identifier.
That is by far the most common way that
people express named function expression.
As a matter of fact, we typically see that
most often when we pass a function as
a call back to some other function.
We see this function keyword immediately
followed by the parentheses set.
And that's referred to as
an anonymous function expression.
JQuery and other tools in libraries and
frameworks that popularize this style.
It's also a lot easier because you just
type it out, it's almost a default kind of
muscle memory, just to type out the word
function and put a parentheses.
On line 5, we see an example of a function
expression that we call a named function
expression and has a name.
And as we just described, that name
is actually going to be accessible
inside itself, but
not in the closing scope.
It's okay that we have
those same names here.
Sometimes those names will be different.
Sometimes there is an external name that
your going to use to refer something.
Or there's some control reason why you're
assigning it to a property of an object or
something.
And it needs to be called
a certain thing on the outside.
But you might have a different and more
descriptive name that you wanna use on
the inside, and
that's entirely okay as well, okay?
So the question often comes up, should I
just create all my functions this way?
And as a matter of fact, shouldn't I just
do a const here, and say const keyHandler?
That's how a lot of people seem to do it.
I prefer function declarations as
oppose to function expressions.
My general rule of thumb is if a function
is going to have any more then about two
or three lines of code I make it into
a function declaration almost without
question.
There is very few exceptions to that.
I will sometimes us an inline function
expression if there is only one or
two lines of code.
If there is any substantial amount
of lines of code I will make it into
a function declaration.
Function declarations have to have names,
so there's no question.
There is no such thing as
an anonymous function declaration.
Actually technically there is with ES6
modules but let's not worry about that.
Function declarations always have names,
okay?
But it's this function expression
that we should ask about.
Because our default,
our instinct is to write these
anonymous function expressions.
Many people like that short in form.
In fact with ES6 we added the whole arrow
function form to make it even shorter and
even more anonymous.
We'll talk about arrow
functions later today.
So what's the difference between
an anonymous function expression and
a named function expression?
What I will say is this.
You should always, and I don't make very
many absolutes, but this is one of them.
You should always, with no exceptions,
prefer the named function expression
over the anonymous function expression.
Even though it's the harder thing to do.
Even though you have to come
up with a good name for it.
Even though it's a little bit more typing.
Even though it's a little
bit more verbose.
It's always gonna be more preferable and
there are main reasons why it's more
preferable to put a name on it.
Let me give you some of the benefits
to think about in terms of the why
a named function expressions is
preferable to an anonymous one.
The first one,
provides a handy self reference to
the functions from inside of itself.
This is useful for a variety of things,
most notable recursion.
If you have a function that is going
to need to recurs on its self,
having a name inside of
it's self is useful.
If you refer to a function from inside
of itself with an identifier that is
actually enclosed in the outer scope.
Like for example that first one on line
1 of the previous slide where I said var
clickHandler.
If I try to use the name clickHandler
inside of that function to refer to
itself, that is not actually
a reliable self-reference because that
variable is in an outer
scope that I don't control.
And somebody else later might re-assign
that variable to point to some
different value.
So it's not a reliable self-reference.
Other examples of self-references.
I regularly find myself
with clickHandlers,
with eventHandlers in particular,
wanting to unbind the eventHandlers
as soon as it fires the first time.
Typically the frameworks you work with
will want you to provide a reference to
the function that was actually bound for
the event.
So having a self-reference is far
better than using something like
the duplicated arguments .calle or
something like that.
You wanna have a good self reference if
you need to refer to the function object.
For example, inspecting its
properties if you wanna recurse,
if you wanna reference it in
an event handler like front binding.
All of these reasons are reasons why
self-references are preferable when they
are the name function, when they
were the named lexical identifier.
And by the way, that identifier
in the function expression and
the named function expression not only
is it reliable in the sense that you
control it in the scope,
it's also read only.
You can't reassign that to anything else.
So you know for
sure inside of that scope that name will
always refer to the function itself.
As a reliable handy self reference.
By the way, even though you
may not have an occasion for
that right now,
sometimes those occasions grow over time.
And it's better to have a name in place
in case you need it even if you aren't
gonna need it.
The consistency is important.
Okay so that's one reason for wanting to
have a name on your function expression.
The next one, how many of you have ever
had an error in your JavaScript program,
anybody?
Okay, good that's a happy occurrence that
we're all one happy big family, right?
We've all had errors.
How many of you have ever seen in a stack
trace in your console, anonymous function,
anonymous function, over an over again,
line after line after line.
Anybody seen that?
It's super helpful, right?
Especially in production code,
where everything's minified, so
they all say line 1, character 32,712.
Cuz we all know exactly what
that function is, right?
Guess what happens if you put a name
on your function expressions.
It uses the name in your stack trace.
Immediately you make your
code more debuggable.
By using those names in the stack traces.
And by the way minifiers used
to strip out those names.
Now the minifiers, like for
example uglify.js, at my behest,
have an option that allows you to preserve
the function name expression even if
it's not used to preserve that
name expression as written.
So that your minified production
code is still debuggable.
Keeping that name expression there makes
you code more debuggable and I honestly
think that rule, that fact in of itself
is more than enough justification.
Because we're not not doing happy
path driven development here.
We wanna write code that is robust
to the problems that will happen.
And even if you can't imagine any scenario
by which this function's gonna participate
in a stack trace,
it's probably going to participate
in a stack trace at some point.
So it's a good idea to
have a good handy name.
True story, I literally have actually
been able to figure out a problem,
knew exactly what my bug was,
without even looking at my code.
Simply looking at the stack trace and
seeing the order of function calls.
If they both set anonymous,
I would had no idea.
But when I saw a call b and I was like,
wait a minute, b should have called a.
I know exactly what's wrong with this.
An off by one index or something right?
So, by knowing for sure what the name is,
we can already debug our programs better.
And even at worst,
we're getting some kind of mental
context in which to approach the code.
If that name says something
like handleClickPresses,
you know kind of what happened.
There was a key press,
there was a click that happened,
there was some kind of this that happened.
That gives me some kind of context and
clue as to approach my code.
If it just says anonymous function,
you're stuck going to look
at the rest of the code.
The third and final reason,
the third and final benefit.
I'd argue that this creates
more self-documenting code.
And I just want put a caveat out here
because I'm not suggesting that all code
should be entirely self-documenting and
there's no reason for documentation or
using comments.
But we can go a long way to helping
ourselves, helping our future selves and
our other team members by coming up
with good useful names for stuff.
If you don't come up with
crappy names like foobar baz.
If you come up with a good
name like handleClickPresses,
you're telling somebody I know
exactly what that's doing.
I know that's handling the click of it,
right?
So when you look at a function, for
example a function being
passed to a callback.
If it's an anonymous function expression,
you cannot tell by that function
signature what the function's gonna do.
So to understand that you have to first
look at where it's being passed and
at its code body to figure that out.
But if you give it a good name,
you immediately given the reader of your
code more of a signal about what to do.
Taken together, I think all three of
these reasons are an ironclad argument.
That's why I make the absolute statement.
There is literally no argument in favor
of the anonymous function expression
except you are too lazy or
uncreative to come up with a name.
It's too onerous and burdensome for you to
put a name on your function expression.
And I'm going to completely
include myself in that.
Because every single time I write
a function, I put it as anonymous and
then I have to go back and I need that.
Like I have to check myself every time.
Because even years later I still
have this as my default habit.
And you're gonna see a bunch of anonymous
function expressions in my slides.
Cuz it's super easy to save space on
slides and not come up with names, right.
But this is definitely one of
those do as I say, not as I do.
In production code, you should always
have names on your function expressions.
It's more future-proof.
It's more debuggable, okay.
[COUGH] So when people are talking
about putting names on their function
expressions and, I don't wanna do this,
and this is hard for me.
Here's my process.
It's just a suggestion for
you about how to go about this.
I've tried to get myself into the habit
than when I write a function expression,
the very first thing I do.
If I don't already know
what it ought to be called,
like if I don't know
handleClickEvent is the right name.
I put the word to do
there in capital letters.
You know why I do that?
Cuz I have that same
habit with my comments.
I'll put a to-do comment and
I search through my code looking for
to-do comments.
And bam, it's gonna pop up if I've
accidentally left that to do placeholder
as the name for my function expression.
So the first thing I do is I start out
with a good placeholder instead of
anonymous.
There's a name there that's
gonna catch my eye and
let me know that I need to
refactor that as some point.
As I'm developing the function, I'm trying
to figure out what I should call it.
And I often don't know at the beginning
of writing that function or
what a good name for it is.
As a matter of fact,
it often takes me multiple attempts.
I call it something and then I work
a little more on it, and I refactor it.
I'm like, that's a bad name now,
let me rename this thing.
And after about the third to four time
I come up with a good useful names for
that function, okay?
So that's my process.
I would encourage you to
find your own process but
I strongly recommend you consider working
against your natural instinct and
behavior and putting names on
all your functions expressions.
Refactor all your code to the add.
You had a question.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah,
this would seem to be huge to me.
I think you said yesterday,
70% of the time coding is
actually spent reading code.
And it would seem that it would
greatly improve when you're
reading somebody else's code.
And it's obvious this is your belief.
Is this the industry belief, or is this,
all of that installed code out there,
is this considered a best practice
by others in the general world,
or is that a religious question?
>> Kyle: I was just about to say,
adherence of my gospel of the JS books.
They probably believe it.
But in general I find the push
in the other direction.
Which is one of the reasons why I
make such a big emphasis on this.
In general I find the push towards,
no let's not optimize for readability.
Let's optimize for
how quickly I can write stuff.
Many of the syntactic additions to
JavaScript where it went in the direction
of let's just remove as many
characters as we possibly can so
that it's quicker to write code.
And that optimizes for the development
process and actually harms, I believe,
the readability process.
So I'm suggesting that we go in the other
direction because I've been there in
the trenches and I've seen both ways done.
And it is harder to maintain code that is
more cryptic because you saved a couple of
extra microseconds when you
were typing out the code.
So I strongly believe it.
I think people are starting to catch
on to that if they follow my work.
But I do not think you will find in
general a large swathe of the industry
that's followed that.
In fact, you see lint or tools and things
like that that suggest the opposite,
which I think is not a good idea.
Yes.
>> Speaker 3: In chat, Craig asked
if there's a naming convention for
named function expressions.
And I said there's two hard problems in
computer science, naming and caching.
>> Kyle: [LAUGH] Well there's
three hard problems, right,
because there's also counting [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: Counting, right, yeah.
>> Kyle: No, so definitely there is no
one standard for the naming convention.
I would advocate,
don't use a naming convention.
Use a specific name for
that specific use case.
Perhaps if you wanna think
about conventions, you can say,
do I wanna name my functions like nouns?
Or do I wanna name them with the verbs
in terms of what action they do?
Do I want to name them in terms
of what their end result will be,
like what they will return?
You'll come up with different names for
them, based upon maybe that broad level
macro kind of convention decision.
But there's no way for me to say that
you should always name it this way or
something.
It should be consistent in terms of style,
so the casing should be the same and
those kinds of things.
Yeah, there's no,
there's no overriding principle there.